For what purpose was the dataset created?

Cirrhosis results from prolonged liver damage, leading to extensive scarring, often due to conditions like hepatitis or chronic alcohol consumption. The data provided is sourced from a Mayo Clinic study on primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) of the liver carried out from 1974 to 1984.

Who funded the creation of the dataset?

Mayo Clinic

What do the instances in this dataset represent?

People

Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?

Gender, Age

Was there any data preprocessing performed?

1. Drop all the rows where miss value (NA) were present in the Drug column
2. Impute missing values with mean results
3. One-hot encoding for all category attributes

Additional Information

During 1974 to 1984, 424 PBC patients referred to the Mayo Clinic qualified for the randomized placebo-controlled trial testing the drug D-penicillamine. Of these, the initial 312 patients took part in the trial and have mostly comprehensive data. The remaining 112 patients didn't join the clinical trial but agreed to record basic metrics and undergo survival tracking. Six of these patients were soon untraceable after their diagnosis, leaving data for 106 of these individuals in addition to the 312 who were part of the randomized trial.


Variables Table
Variable Name	Role	Type	Demographic	Description	Units	Missing Values
ID	ID	Integer		unique identifier		no
N_Days	Other	Integer		number of days between registration and the earlier of death, transplantation, or study analysis time in July 1986		no
Status	Target	Categorical		status of the patient C (censored), CL (censored due to liver tx), or D (death)		no
Drug	Feature	Categorical		type of drug D-penicillamine or placebo		yes
Age	Feature	Integer	Age	age	days	no
Sex	Feature	Categorical	Sex	M (male) or F (female)		no
Ascites	Feature	Categorical		presence of ascites N (No) or Y (Yes)		yes
Hepatomegaly	Feature	Categorical		presence of hepatomegaly N (No) or Y (Yes)		yes
Spiders	Feature	Categorical		presence of spiders N (No) or Y (Yes)		yes
Edema	Feature	Categorical		presence of edema N (no edema and no diuretic therapy for edema), S (edema present without diuretics, or edema resolved by diuretics), or Y (edema despite diuretic therapy)		no
Bilirubin	Feature	Continuous		serum bilirubin	mg/dl	no
Cholesterol	Feature	Integer		serum cholesterol	mg/dl	yes
Albumin	Feature	Continuous		albumin	gm/dl	no
Copper	Feature	Integer		urine copper	ug/day	yes
Alk_Phos	Feature	Continuous		alkaline phosphatase	U/liter	yes
SGOT	Feature	Continuous		SGOT	U/ml	yes
Tryglicerides	Feature	Integer		tryglicerides		yes
Platelets	Feature	Integer		platelets per cubic	ml/1000	yes
Prothrombin	Feature	Continuous		prothrombin time	s	yes
Stage	Feature	Categorical		histologic stage of disease (1, 2, 3, or 4)		yes